---
layout: default
title: "Architecture"
date: 2014-04-01
description:
  Architecture document
authors:
  - "Carlos Miranda"
  - "Yegor Bugayenko"
---

This document specifies architecture and design decisions made in relation to
the Thindeck.com project.

Section 2 lists basic assumptions made after investigation of the provided
business case description. Section 3 includes class diagrams showing the
packaging and class design. Section 4 explains separation of software
components, and the interaction between them and third-parties.
Section 5 describes a proposed physical layout of the major tiers of the
system under development (SuD). Section 6 gives internal details of major use
case implementations. Section 7 lists the three most severe technical risks
identified, analyzed, and planned. Section 8 lists all important technical
decisions made during architecture and design.

## 2. Assumptions

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Assumption</th>
      <th>Details</th>
      <th>Motivation</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Hosted websites are treated as being stateless
      </td>
      <td>
        All websites that are hosted by Thindeck will be stateless, or at least
        they are assumed to be. Since Thindeck is actually a hosting platform
        that runs sites in their own containers, there isn't actually have any
        way to know if an application is truly stateless. Thus, any internal
        state of hosted applications will be ignored and may be lost.
      </td>
      <td>
        The SRS requires that the hosted sites be stateless. This allows
        Thindeck to be extremely flexible and scalable. Containers can be
        started or stopped at  any time, depending on the server load, without
        having to update or synchronize resources pertaining to state.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Thindeck's hosting providers have better performance and reliability
      </td>
      <td>
        Thindeck's hosting providers (e.g. AWS, CloudBees) should have better
        performance and reliability compared to what the SRS defines for
        Thindeck itself.
      </td>
      <td>
        Thindeck is a hosting provider for simple web sites, Thindeck itself is
        hosted on other services. Its own reliability and performance, at best,
        is reliant on that of its hosting. For it to provide the required
        reliability and performance, its hosting providers should be even better
        in the same regard.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## 3. Class diagrams

The classes that comprise the data model and their relationships are documented
in the [Software Requirements Specification](/requs/requs.xml).

To be continued...

> @todo #261/DES Our data model class diagrams are now generated by Requs and
>  included in the SRS. But, we also need to show the classes and interfaces
>  that involve the other parts of the system, e.g. API infrastructure,
>  UI classes, data persistence classes, etc.
> @todo #1/DES Let's define the packaging structure of Thindeck. Describe the
>  purposes of each package, the classes and resources that they contain, etc.
>  Include a diagram showing how they are all related.

## 4. Component View

There is a dedicated article for [Component View]({% post_url 2014/jun/2014-06-24-component-view %}).

## 5. Deployment View

There is a dedicated article for [Deployment View]({% post_url 2014/jun/2014-06-27-deployment-view %}).

## 6. Use Cases, Sequence Diagrams

Use Cases and their associated Sequence Diagrams can be found in the
[Software Requirements Specification](/requs/requs.xml).

## 7. Technical Risks

To be continued...

> @todo #1/DES We need to identify the risks associated with this project. Let's
>  document those risks in this section.

## 8. Decisions Made

As documented in [Component View]({% post_url 2014/jun/2014-06-24-component-view %})
there will be five major components of the application, which will communicate asynchronously.
Two of the components **Meter** and **Board** will be a third party applications
provided by AWS.

* all UI activities should be available through RESTful API
* UI will use responsive design to simultaneously support desktop and mobile devices
* payment processing will be done by PayPal
* following source repositories will be supported: ...
* containers will use ... operating system
* containers will be created using ... virtualization technology
* SMTP communication will be handled by ...

> @todo #256 Let's document next set of decisions made, by removing ellipsis,
>  from the above list.

## 9. References

UML 2.0, Infrastructure and Superstructure, by OMG,
{{http://www.omg.org/spec/UML/2.0/}}.
